---
title: "Efficient and Interpretable Graph Similarity Computation via Differentiable Optimal Assignment"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2020-09-09-graph-ot
date: 2020-09-09
venue: 'Conference (under submission)'
citation: 'Efficient and Interpretable Graph Similarity Computation via Differentiable Optimal Assignment
K Doan, S Manchanda, S Mahapatra, C Reddy, 2020.'
---
Computing graph similarity is one of the most important tasks in many graph-related applications, e.g. graph similarity search or graph clustering. To avoid the exact computation of graph similarity measures such as Graph Edit Distance (GED) (which are NP-hard), learning-based graph-similarity approaches estimate a similarity function (often modeled as a deep neural network), given a pair of graphs. However, in existing methods, the similarity function is defined heuristically and is not automatically related to the commonly used graph-similarity distance metrics such as GED. Thus this leads to a model which has high bias and consequently sub-optimal performance. In this paper, we propose a learning-based graph-similarity method, based on a novel optimal assignment formulation. Specifically, we formulate the similarity between a pair of graphs as the minimal “transformation” cost between one graph to the other graph in the vertex-embedding space. In case a vertex embedding is able to capture its neighborhood context closely, our proposed similarity function can be shown to be closely related to common measures such as GED. More importantly, unlike existing methods, some of which are based on attention mechanism due to which they are not interpretable, our proposed methodology results in interpretable node assignments which closely match the ground truth. To learn our model, we propose an efficient, differentiable computation of our proposed objective. Empirically, we demonstrate that the proposed method achieves up to 50%-100% reduction in the Mean Squared Error in the graph-similarity approximation task, and up to 20% improvement in the retrieval evaluation metrics in the graph retrieval task, compared to the current state-of-the-art methods.